# `chacha20` as a CS-PRNG
This package implements a Cryptographically-secure pseudo-random number generator
(CS-PRNG) based on a fork of the ChaCha20 stream cipher \[[1][1]\] provided by the standard library
in `golang.org/x/crypto/chacha20`. We initialise a ChaCha20 cipher with the provided
key, and then use the cipher to repeatedly XOR the same arbitrary plaintext 
(we use a slice of zeros) in stream mode, using the resulting variable-length ciphertext
as the output of the PRNG.

## PRNG properties
- _SecurityStrength_: The ChaCha20 stream cipher is a secure symmetric encryption algorithm with 256-bit keys.
- _SeedSize_: The key size is always 32 bytes. Nonces can have 12 or 24 bytes. Higher nonces are trimmed.
- _AutomaticReseeding_: Yes, we reseed the key with the PRNG itself.
- _KeyDerivationFunction_: Only for the initial key if small nonce is provided, using `HChacha20`.


## Fast-key erasure and long-sequence optimisation

This PRNG uses the fast-key erasure technique described in \[[2]\]. In short, every time the buffer of bytes generated by the PRNG is exhausted, the key is refreshed from the PRNG itself, achieving a strong degree of forward secrecy: if the entire PRNG state is compromised, only the unused bytes are revealed, as knowledge of the key does not allow to recover the previous states.

As an optimisation when generating random bit sequences longer than the PRNG buffer, we sample a temporary key and use it for the generation of the entire long sequence, discarding it afterwards.


\[1\] ChaCha20 and Poly1305 for IETF Protocols. June 2018. https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8439
\[2\] Fast-key-erasure random-number generators. March 2017. https://blog.cr.yp.to/20170723-random.html


[1]: "https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8439"